ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Architecture

[Русская версия](ARCHITECTURE.ru.md)

## Website

## Telegram Bot

The bot deletes previous messages in private chat that are not related to the current request. In this case, the `editMessageTextOrSendMessage` command is used to display the message. If you need to send several messages (for example, display a text message "Your geolocation", then send a message with a geolocation, and then a message with a keyboard for editing or return), then you must first call the editMessageTextOrSendMessage command, and then sendLocation and sendMessage.

The bot deletes its previous messages in a private chat with a user that are not related to the current request, and deletes all user messages. In this case, the command `editMessageTextOrSendMessage` is used to display the bot message. When you need to send several messages (for example, first display the text message “Your Location”, then send a message with geolocation, and then a message with a keyboard), you should first call the command `editMessageTextOrSendMessage`, and then the commands `sendLocation` and `sendMessage`.

## Core

- working with `float` in PHP you **MUST** always use [BC Math Functions](https://www.php.net/manual/en/ref.bc.php).
    - For handy comparison of two floats use `\app\helpers\Number`.
    - [Why it so important?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3148937/compare-floats-in-php)

Commit message:

Debt Reduction & Redistribution system: finished (#477)
* #294 ftr: Reduction optimization: process DebtBalance only when it changed direction

* ref: create FloatAttributeTrait for ActiveRecord

* #294 fix: relation from Debt to DebtBalance

* #294 fix: use class Number to compare floats everywhere in debts system

* #294 fix: use class Number to compare floats everywhere in debts system

* #294 ref: create RelationToDebtBalanceTrait

* #294 test: create functional\debt\redistribution\PriorityCest

* #294 ref: improve and make more clear PriorityCest

* #294 fix: set decimal scale=2 for debt_redistribution.max_amount

* #294 ftr: add tests\functional\debt\redistribution\MaxAmountCest

* #294 ftr: add tests\functional\debt\redistribution\TargetBalanceHasOwnChainCest

* #294 ftr: add logs for app\components\debt\Redistribution

* #294 fix: command `yii fixture/load '*'`

* #294 travis: run all codeception tests

* #294 ref: fix for CodeClimate

* #294 ref: small code style fix [ci skip]

ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Architecture

[Русская версия](ARCHITECTURE.ru.md)

## Website

## Telegram Bot

The bot deletes previous messages in private chat that are not related to the current request. In this case, the `editMessageTextOrSendMessage` command is used to display the message. If you need to send several messages (for example, display a text message "Your geolocation", then send a message with a geolocation, and then a message with a keyboard for editing or return), then you must first call the editMessageTextOrSendMessage command, and then sendLocation and sendMessage.

The bot deletes its previous messages in a private chat with a user that are not related to the current request, and deletes all user messages. In this case, the command `editMessageTextOrSendMessage` is used to display the bot message. When you need to send several messages (for example, first display the text message “Your Location”, then send a message with geolocation, and then a message with a keyboard), you should first call the command `editMessageTextOrSendMessage`, and then the commands `sendLocation` and `sendMessage`.

## Core

- `FLOAT`
    - working with `float` in PHP you **MUST** always use [BC Math Functions](https://www.php.net/manual/en/ref.bc.php).
        - For handy comparison of two floats use `\app\helpers\Number`.
        - [Why it so important?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3148937/compare-floats-in-php)
        - If DB table has decimal column - add trait `\app\models\traits\FloatAttributeTrait` into `ActiveRecord`.
    - beware the same problem in all program languages ([MySql](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2188139/check-for-equality-on-a-mysql-float-field), [JS](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3343623/javascript-comparing-two-float-values/3343658), etc.)
