INSTALL.md, before:

# Installation

## General setup

- Copy file `.env.dist` to `.env` in the root directory
- Set correct values in `.env` for your environment
- Copy file `.env.test.dist` to `.env.test` in the root directory
- Set correct values in `.env.test` for test environment
- Copy `config/params.dist.php` to `config/params.php`
- Copy `config/web-local.dist.php` to `config/web-local.php`

#### Using Docker

- Set `DB_HOST=db` in `.env` file
- Run `docker-compose up -d` from root directory
- Run `docker-compose exec php composer install`
- Run `docker-compose exec php ./yii migrate`

Web-server can be accessed at http://localhost:8000

#### Without Docker

- Install [MySQL +5.7.X](https://www.mysql.com)
- Create a new MySQL database ("opensourcewebsite" by default) with an "utf8mb4_unicode_ci" collation for your environment
- Create a new MySQL database ("opensourcewebsite_test" by default) with an "utf8mb4_unicode_ci" collation for test environment
- Setup your web-server root folder to `web`
- Install [PHP +7.2.X](https://www.php.net)
- Install [Composer](https://getcomposer.org)
- Run `php composer.phar install`
- Run `php yii migrate`

## Fixtures

Fixtures are used to load a "fake" set of data into a database that can then be used for testing or to help give you some interesting data while you're developing your application.

After loading fixtures, will be available this [user login credentials](tests/fixtures/data/user.php).

Attention! When loading fixtures, all current records from the database will be deleted!

Loading fixtures:
```
php yii fixture/load "*"
```

Unloading fixtures:
```
php yii fixture/unload "*"
```

## Run tests

- Run `php tests/bin/yii migrate`
- Run `php vendor/codeception/base/codecept run`

## Telegram bots

We recommend use [ngrok - secure introspectable tunnels to localhost](https://ngrok.com), for local development and testing of Telegram bots. Telegram webhooks require your URL to be public and secure (HTTPS). ngrok is a tool that exposes your local environment to the world.

- Use [Telegram BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) to create new bot and get a bot token.
- Set `baseUrl` in `params.php` for your ngrok https url.
- In case of connection problems to Telegram, use free anonymous proxy ([list 1](https://www.firexproxy.com/en), [list 2](https://mtpro.xyz/socks5)) to set `telegramProxy` in `params.php`.
- Create a new record in `bot` table in MySQL database, with `status` = 0, or use console command to add new bot:
```
php yii bot/add TOKEN
```

Enable Telegram webhooks for all bots with `status` = 0:
```
php yii bot/enable-all
```

Disable Telegram webhooks for all bots with `status` = 1:
```
php yii bot/disable-all
```

Commit message:

cfg: many different small changes. Business logic remain the same (#341)
* #294 refactor: add \app\commands\traits\ControllerLogTrait

* #294 refactor: add method ControllerLogTrait::output()

* #294 refactor minor - just for better code reading

* #294 code climate: refactor minor

* #294 db: create debt_redistribution table

* #294 ui: fix \yii\bootstrap\Modal header

* #294 ftr: on /contact/view add pop-up Debt Redistribution

* #294 code climate: refactor minor

* #294 code climate: refactor minor

* #294 code climate: refactor minor

* #294 refactor: add ContactQuery

* #294 composer: require loveorigami/yii2-modal-ajax

* #294 refactor: rename ContactQuery::currentUserOwner() -> userOwner()

* #294 [WIP] db: recreate debt_redistribution table

Add `currency_id`. Remove `priority`.

TODO:
1. allow to manage currency_id
2. add contact.priority column. Find all "//todo [#294][priority]"

* #294 [WIP] ui: allow to manage debt_redistribution.currency_id

TODO:
1. add contact.priority column. Find all "//todo [#294][priority]"

* #294 db+ui: add contact.debt_redistribution_priority

* #294 composer: update composer.lock after git merge

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 ref: small

* #294 ftr: add console module dataGenerator and UserFixture

* #294 ftr: add ContactFixture to dataGenerator

* #294 ftr: add DebtRedistributionFixture to dataGenerator

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 phpdoc [ci skip]

* #294 ref: clean code

* #294 ftr: add DebtFixture to dataGenerator

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 cfg: many different small changes. Business logic remain the same

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

* #294 CodeClimate: refactor minor

INSTALL.md, after:

# Installation

## General setup

- Copy file `.env.dist` to `.env` in the root directory
- Set correct values in `.env` for your environment
- Copy file `.env.test.dist` to `.env.test` in the root directory
- Set correct values in `.env.test` for test environment
- Copy `config/params.dist.php` to `config/params.php`
- Copy `config/web-local.dist.php` to `config/web-local.php`

#### Using Docker

- Set `DB_HOST=db` in `.env` file
- Run `docker-compose up -d` from root directory
- Run `docker-compose exec php composer install`
- Run `docker-compose exec php ./yii migrate`

Web-server can be accessed at http://localhost:8000

#### Without Docker

- Install [MySQL +5.7.X](https://www.mysql.com)
- Create a new MySQL database ("opensourcewebsite" by default) with an "utf8mb4_unicode_ci" collation for your environment
- Create a new MySQL database ("opensourcewebsite_test" by default) with an "utf8mb4_unicode_ci" collation for test environment
- Setup your web-server root folder to `web`
- Install [PHP +7.2.X](https://www.php.net)
- Install [Composer](https://getcomposer.org)
- Run `php composer.phar install`
- Run `php yii migrate`

## Fixtures

Fixtures are used to load a "fake" set of data into a database that can then be used for testing or to help give you some interesting data while you're developing your application.

After loading fixtures, will be available this [user login credentials](tests/fixtures/data/user.php).

Attention! When loading fixtures, all current records from the database will be deleted!

Loading fixtures:
```
php yii fixture/load "*"
```

Unloading fixtures:
```
php yii fixture/unload "*"
```

## Data Generator

- Module `dataGenerator` is available only in `console` app.
- This module designed for dev environment only.
So, you may need to run `composer install --dev` first.
- You can see help instructions here: `yii dataGenerator/default/load -h`
- Default usage is next: `yii dataGenerator "*"`
    - _all models with default interval = `2` sec_
- Advanced usage: `yii dataGenerator "*, -Contact" --interval=5`
    - _all models except `Contact` with interval = `5` sec_
- Controller extends from `\yii\console\controllers\FixtureController`.
So this part of documentation -
[Loading fixtures](https://www.yiiframework.com/doc/guide/2.0/en/test-fixtures#loading-fixtures) -
can be used to understand command syntax.
- Available fixtures: `User`, `Contact`, `Debt`, `DebtRedistribution`
- You can easily add new fixtures into dir `modules\dataGenerator\components\generators`

## Run tests

- Run `php tests/bin/yii migrate`
- Run `php vendor/codeception/base/codecept run`

## Telegram bots

We recommend use [ngrok - secure introspectable tunnels to localhost](https://ngrok.com), for local development and testing of Telegram bots. Telegram webhooks require your URL to be public and secure (HTTPS). ngrok is a tool that exposes your local environment to the world.

- Use [Telegram BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) to create new bot and get a bot token.
- Set `baseUrl` in `params.php` for your ngrok https url.
- In case of connection problems to Telegram, use free anonymous proxy ([list 1](https://www.firexproxy.com/en), [list 2](https://mtpro.xyz/socks5)) to set `telegramProxy` in `params.php`.
- Create a new record in `bot` table in MySQL database, with `status` = 0, or use console command to add new bot:
```
php yii bot/add TOKEN
```

Enable Telegram webhooks for all bots with `status` = 0:
```
php yii bot/enable-all
```

Disable Telegram webhooks for all bots with `status` = 1:
```
php yii bot/disable-all
```
